The TurtleBot is one of the famous robots used
by roboticists around the world to perform localization,
mapping, and path planning.
At this point in time, the TurtleBot comes in three different versions.
The TurtleBot one was introduced in 2010 with an iRobot Create base.
The TurtleBot two was introduced in 2012 with the Kobuki base,
and the latest, TurtleBot three family was introduced in 2017.
In this lab, you will deploy the TurtleBot two
in a Gazebo environment and then estimate its pose.
TheTurtleBot two has multiple on-board sensors
ranging from rotary encoders to IMU to vision.
So, you will use an EKF package to fuse
at least two of these sensors and estimate the robot's pose.
Going through the documentation of the TurtleBot Gazebo package,
we see that not much information is provided.
Usually, the risks of subscriber and publisher topics of Ros package is provided.
But not to worry, because you can always go on the package
and obtain the lists of subscribers and publisher topics.
Let's dive into our VM and do so.
First, open a terminal and clone
the package into the SRC folder of your catkin workspace.
Feel free to pause this video at any time and follow the steps in the instructor notes.
Next, source the workspace and install the package dependencies.
Then, built the package.
And once again, source the workspace.
Finally, launch the nodes.
Launching TurtleBot for the first time in Gazebo might take up to five minute.
Now, TurtleBot two is deployed in the Gazebo environment with some obstacles around it.
To obtain the list of subscriber and publisher topics,
you can either on the architect graph or run a Ros topic list command.
Let's open a new terminal and execute a Ros topic list command.
All of the subscriber and publisher topics of
different nodes are now listed in our terminal.
The TurtleBot is publishing data from
different on-board sensors and subscribing to control commands.
The robot can accept control command through the teleop topic.
The depth images are being published to a camera depth image row topic.
Other than that, the encoders position and
velocity are being published to the Odom topic.
Finally, the robot is publishing IMU data to the mobile base sensors, IMU data topic.
In the TurtleBot package,
nodes are subscribing and publishing to
other topics but we are only interested in these for now,
to control and estimate the robot's pose.